Edits: Introduction (#19)
apisyouwonthate/book-surviving-apis: 00-introduction.adoc

> = Introduction

Reviewer: General thought - since we're both going to be on the byline for this book, it might make sense to put together an introduction of who Phil is, and who Mike is, and why we started collaborating on this: you've been designing and building APIs for ages, and I've been building the experiences that consume them.

Otherwise this introduction does an odd switch between "I" and "we" between the first and second sections

Author: Yeah good spot, I was thinking of a foreword somewhere. Going to find a way for us to tag who each chapter is written later on.

An API ("Application Program Interface") is a rather generic term in the world
of computer science and programming. A Linux command-line application would
consider the command names and options to be an API. A Java module would also
consider its classes, method names, and arguments to be an API. 

> Basically an API means code somebody else wrote, and a Web APIs is just code

Reviewer: how about "an API allows you to send command requests to code somebody else wrote?"

that lives on a server controlled by somebody else. 

The goal of a Web API is to provide other applications with access to specific

> subset of functionality or data that an application owns. The interactionsover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subsets of functionality or data that an application owns. The interactions over
```

Some of these problems are just lessons learned over time, but in the
mean time your application can be suffering all sorts of bug reports,
user complaints, server issues, and who knows what other sort of
production issues. If it's not as dire as that, there are at least other
sources of confusion that'll get you spinning your wheels trying to
figure out what to do next. 

Throughout the 2000s, most of us web developers were building frontend and the
backend in the same application. The frontend was just whatever HTML the backend
decided to spit out. Frontend developers would design the templates (HTML + data
tags), and the backend would decide which HTML template to show, and what values
to shove into those tags. Go Smarty.

It was a simple time, but there was a lot of difficulty and hair-pulling.
Sharing data between the presentation layer and the the backend was bad enough,
but sharing data between different organizations was a mess. There were various
complicated things floating around like SOAP ("Simple Object Access Protocol"),
but instead of diving into that there was a scary amount of nonsense like iframe
trickery. 

> There was a whole lot of scraping websites and yoinking out data with regex. One

Reviewer: maybe: add a parenthetical explaining what `regex` is to someone who hasn't encountered it before

time built something for a financial services company to provide stocks and
shares data for the MSN Money homepage. We generated full HTML on our backend
from some horrendous CMS, then they read the whole thing, regex replaced some
special tags added just for them, cached it somehow, and shoved their own CSS on
it... It was around this time I started writing about APIs. 🤔

=== Rise of the API

Thankfully we've mostly escaped that swamp, and the vast majority of
organizations are building APIs for this sort of work, with API consumers
focusing on interface building.

On the desktop it's all about single-page JavaScript applications, with

> EmberJS/ReactJS offering data-binding to pull and push data from a data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular/React/Vue/Rails offering data-binding to pull and push data from a data source.
```

Ember has [fallen out of fashion](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=all&geo=US&q=%2Fm%2F0s8wr70&hl=en) by now, sadly

> Mobiles have come on the scene and often work very similarly, regardless of if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile phones have come on the scene and often work very similarly, regardless of if
```

With everyone focused on their specific modules, bringing them together can in
some ways be more complex, but - when packaged properly - leveraging that work
for multiple games is far easier than rebuilding it all for multiple games.
Paying the licensing fee to that existing software is certainly going to be
quicker, but it could even be cheaper, because they don't have the developers to
pull it off in house, and even if they did those salaries could cost more than
the licensing fee. 

APIs are very much the same sort of idea. Startups don't have time to build
their own SMS messaging service, so they just use Twilio. It's fantastic, it
only takes a few minutes to get started, and it means that startup can focus on
their application, which is going to make the world a better place through
drone-powered at-home underpants folding as a service.

If something awfully complex pops up like geocoding, its increasingly common to
call an external API like Mapbox API, or OpenStreet Map API,
because generating a standard interface for wildly different datasets around the
globe is a mess, and why waste time on that when you've got underpants to fold!

> == Monoliths & Cluster-f**ks

Reviewer: love this!

Perhaps Uber for Underpants is so successful that their bottom line is being

> effected with all the SMS API charges, so they decide to ditch that external API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
affected by all the SMS API charges, so they decide to ditch that external API
```

and build an internal API which can handle SMS messaging. This all gets added
into an ever growing API which creaks and groans with all the new
responsibilities.

Alternatively as the organization grows, and the number of developers grow with

> it, bits of their APIs might split off into smaller APIs so that individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it, bits of their monolithic APIs might split off into smaller APIs so that individual
```

teams can work on just their piece of the puzzle internally.

Arrows are always moving around, and new APIs are being merged in, spun out,
rewritten, and forgotten about. Applications start talking to each other in
unexpected ways without telling anyone. Architectural diagrams get out of date.

> Everything starts talking to everything and it just because an octopus orgy of

Reviewer: LMAO phil
